PolicyKit is an application that sits on its own server. However, it would be prohibitive if users of a social platform needed to go to PolicyKit for every governance task, such as proposing an action or voting on a proposal. In addition, as PolicyKit needs to enforce policies, it must have a way of stopping and allowing actions that are carried out on the platform itself, since the platform already has an existing governance that PolicyKit must supersede. These capabilities are defined in platform integration libraries that can be developed for any platform to connect with PolicyKit. Once a single developer has created an integration using a platform’s web API, any community on that platform can use PolicyKit.

In order to install PolicyKit to a community, there must be an **authentication workflow**, such as OAuth, for at least one admin or mod account to give access to PolicyKit so that it may govern a broad set of actions, including privileged ones. The platform integration must also specify ways to **send messages** to users on the platform. In order for PolicyKit to govern actions, it must know what **platform actions** are possible; these are specified via the creation of `GovernableAction` classes. Actions typically are carried out via web API endpoints provided by the platform that are then made available through an `execute()` method in the action class and undoable via a `revert()` method. Finally, the integration must incorporate a **listener** to listen for user actions on the platform as well as a listener for votes on a notification message. For instance, votes could be recorded via an emoji reaction or a reply to a notification message.

So far, we have implemented platform integrations for the platforms Slack, Reddit, Discord and Discourse.
